Gwenevere Abriel: Good morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let's check on audio.
I think I gotcha.
Benny Chavez: I got my number back
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Pictures really read. Do you have any idea why that might be.
Benny Chavez: So light in here. I'm at my mom's house and she has like one of these freaking on
Benny Chavez: Like she hasn't here.
Benny Chavez: I know I hate this. Like, what
Gwenevere Abriel: Is the sign up over there maybe getting some let
Benny Chavez: Me, let me
Benny Chavez: Open this look.
Benny Chavez: At my mark. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're at your mom's is your wife there now.
Benny Chavez: I have to give you the meeting ID. This is like the worst time for her. I was talking to her just now, and I was just like,
Benny Chavez: Well, eight o'clock. I know you understand you get the kids ready for school and stuff. But, you know, um, she said that she'd be able to come at 830 but I told her. Okay, well, eight o'clock, like the worst time possible time book I understood that I just told her.
Gwenevere Abriel: A better time. Just tell me what better time is okay.
Benny Chavez: Like seven o'clock. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: What we can do is
Gwenevere Abriel: Next Friday.
Gwenevere Abriel: At seven which is best Valentine's Day, actually, is that going to be a
Gwenevere Abriel: Bad thing or a good thing.
Benny Chavez: But it'll be a good thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so 7am on February 14
Benny Chavez: Is a better one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my gosh, that's so much better.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we've got that. And so, but let's just give her a first impression. So she can say hello to me and just see what happens. The kids will be out the door by 830. Is that right,
Benny Chavez: Well by 35, give or take. They take the bus. She always made me
Benny Chavez: By 35 they're out the door, though.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's see. Let's see if we can pull that off to it. And are you right there. How close because you're at your mom's how close are you to being Oh she's been a login from her place.
Benny Chavez: Yeah, she's already shared you got the account. She's already made an effort and did all the email things and I just have to send you the meeting ID.
Benny Chavez: For you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Center that go ahead and text her that
Benny Chavez: Should
Gwenevere Abriel: Just got it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You did that and I'm going to open up a little note here. Okay.
Benny Chavez: Thank you. You bet.
Benny Chavez: Center. Very nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you guys have played with it, you've logged in to your own like zoom room. Have you guys done that at all. Do you know
Benny Chavez: Oh, I haven't, but she's she knows how to do it. I just told her. When you log in, just put that number. I just gave you the meeting ID and it's bright heart health with capital letters and she knows how she's, she's, she's seen me do it before she's helped me with it before. Okay.
Let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's prop me up somewhere so that I don't get dizzy from
Sure.
Benny Chavez: I gotta look and see when our last hang tight been a while.
Benny Chavez: This, this whole copy paste thing. I gotta, I gotta be able to see where it is mores.
Gwenevere Abriel: So December 19
Benny Chavez: At seven
Benny Chavez: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: February 14
Benny Chavez: Valentine's Day.
Benny Chavez: Gotcha.
Gotcha.
Getting close here.
Okay, come on, come on, come on.
Gwenevere Abriel: There we go. All right, we do need to take some time since it's been since December to review your goals and modify them and we can do that today. Kind of make them more relevant to your current life.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Same clothes. Open it up again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Oh, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you want, what you want. I get my license in the next 3060 days. Do you have your license.
Benny Chavez: Oh, I haven't got it yet. I did the judge when I went back to the courtroom.
Benny Chavez: He must mistaken me for somebody else because he's he's invoke my license for a whole year. I just wanted to get out of jail.
Benny Chavez: I was just like, just let me out, man. I'll fix it when a kid out just to get them out these so when he did that as a child support ticket away. I don't think he realized that I already had my license before that he thought I was driving on the repo.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you didn't care. To clarify, you just wanted out of jail.
Benny Chavez: While I was trying to clarify, but it was just everybody's in a rush, and I was just trying to get out. I, I know Thursday's day to go see him we finished our last time.
Yeah.
Benny Chavez: Fingers and we'll talk to him. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you going to do it or you're just
Benny Chavez: Going to take because Toronto. I'm going to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you doing anything else that we get in the way of that.
Benny Chavez: I'm I'm getting all the stuff I have, I mean, because I think he really thought it was something else, he thought I was driving on revoked. And that wasn't the case I had got my license back
Gwenevere Abriel: And what I, what I mean by is when you say I'm going to go on Thursday when I'm asking you is, is there anything that is going to get in your way of getting on the bus and getting down there, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: What time are you going to leave.
Benny Chavez: Six in the morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, Thursday.
Gwenevere Abriel: People boo, take a bus. Because really we got, you know, we live in a society. Nowadays, we gotta have transportation. I mean,
Benny Chavez: Yeah, and the bad part about it was my mom user is using my car right now like to get back
Benny Chavez: On her name so
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just going to extend this goal, and you're gonna put put work into it because you want to have your license.
Benny Chavez: And let's see if
Gwenevere Abriel: A judge can get clear and you'd say, you know what you need to bring with you.
Benny Chavez: Yeah, I know. I already have everything already. I got it off the website from to do MTD
Nice.
Benny Chavez: Child support all that's current to
Gwenevere Abriel: How often are you, this is a different goal. This is not one that you said it's one that I include in everyone's treatment plan.
Gwenevere Abriel: Want you to think about how spirituality or your religion, your faith in God affects your recovery. How often are you right because you did have a slip you used math. So how often like right right in that space. Did you forget to go to God does like what happened.
Benny Chavez: I really did. I really did. I've been so confused, since I got out of jail and everything. I lost my job. You saw the double whammy is right back right and you start making excuses, look what's happened to me. I lost everything. I
Benny Chavez: Kind of blame everything else. And it's like I'm I need to just I I'm taking responsibility now. That's the first step. So yes, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Yesterday's discussion about right guilt is taking responsibility versus shame, which you just want to stay in bed and not not be you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's so overwhelming. So in your language today, you're, you're in your solution. And that's exciting because it's more hopeful there to say, well, I
Gwenevere Abriel: This is a crummy part of my life right now I've got a lot to work on.
Gwenevere Abriel: And let me ask you.
Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you notice like when
Gwenevere Abriel: You were using prayer and then it stopped. Like, do you remember you were using it, something happened with this, but then this happened and then all bets are off. And instead of prayer you went to a false god, which is drug
Benny Chavez: You know, I could tell you go in after my brother day that kind of like told me, like, is there really a God is all
Benny Chavez: My family and I used to be real spiritual when I was younger, I believe it or not.
Benny Chavez: I mean, I will leave my hands on my mom. She is unrealistic, you know, this night and she said she could feel like this five in me.
Benny Chavez: That I have this spirituality and I lost it somewhere down the line. And when I lost my wife and everything. That's when I said
Benny Chavez: I just want to live, no more. I had a gun to my head. Just to let you know I had a gun to my head. Anyway, thought I.
Benny Chavez: Wanted to say I never thought in a million years, but I really almost did. And it's just kind of scary because I never thought I'd be doing something like that. And for me to go that
Benny Chavez: It's pretty pretty bad.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is pretty bad. Whereas that gun now.
Benny Chavez: I don't have it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Who is what this was it.
Benny Chavez: Was my buddies.
Gwenevere Abriel: And where's your buddy.
Benny Chavez: Oh, he's not around them one she's came from Oskar Eustis other data come see me and he had in his car and
Benny Chavez: He was just on my cousin's house because all my mom's my mom's neighbors. They're like my uncle's were all related. So it's so easy to
Benny Chavez: That's why I don't like being around here because she knows it's severe anxiety and you know it's not easy to stay clean around here. I'm not saying, Yeah, I can't do it. I just didn't like doing but
Benny Chavez: It is possible.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um, how many miles away as last Christmas from where you are now.
Benny Chavez: I'm about to 300 okay
Gwenevere Abriel: So you do not have access anymore to a gun or other Lethal Weapon.
No. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: About 200 miles away it. Does that scare you, that it got that bad.
Benny Chavez: Yeah, I didn't think. And then after that I was just like crying like I was at my wit's end and I even said like I do want to live, you know,
Benny Chavez: I told myself I put my myself and my mom shoes because she just lost a son and I choose because I was like, oh no, they did that pain for them being variable unbearable.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: My son's pain would be unbearable. So you're going to bear the pain of living. Okay. And maybe for now it's it's it's it's just surviving. But later on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Benny. Let's work towards thriving, not just surviving. Okay, let's work towards that this isn't any kind of life to have it. Get that bad. So this might be a real awakening the next six months of your life or so might be a real awakening for you. It might be exciting. Instead of terrifying.
Benny Chavez: I'm so scared. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, did you notice you know how you said in group, you said it seems like you're speaking directly to me, you know, doesn't it seem like you went to shame. I'm unworthy. This is I can't solve this, and you want to guess what you want to do you want to die.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's
Benny Chavez: Weird
I know
Benny Chavez: That's weird. Like, I feel myself coming out of the shell. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that is true for everyone. That's why when I say everyone I recommend you detox from shame. The second took and how to recognize it is the second to catch yourself name.
Benny Chavez: Falling I am
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm worthless. I'm an A hole. I'm whatever as soon as you catch a name call inside your head. Stop push it away and say,
Gwenevere Abriel: That will literally lead me to death right and leads to death or addiction, doesn't it, what
Benny Chavez: I got in a fight with my uncle to yesterday.
Benny Chavez: My dad's dead now. And he's all training with my mom and to call my brother proceed, my brother, my brother's dead. You know, I was helping them to guard.
Benny Chavez: And I just couldn't take it. And he went off on me and I just went off on him and kind of let loose full of couple scrapes and bruises, but
Benny Chavez: It's just like, what else can go wrong. Like, cuz my mom's house is out of hand with everything going on my sister just moved out my uncle's face your mother. My dad's best friend is saying, you know, my mom, my dad did know what kind of friends that you know
Gwenevere Abriel: Any it's not
Gwenevere Abriel: If you start to see as you get more and more sober.
Gwenevere Abriel: I start to see what you actually like and don't like not what what what was normalized. When you grow up, but what you actually will not tolerate it anymore. When you start to really get in touch with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not going to have the same friends anymore, right, because you're going to see, oh, you only liked me when I was
Gwenevere Abriel: Doing this behavior. You only like me when I was using there wasn't a real connection. You may not like yourself when you're around people anymore.
Gwenevere Abriel: Those people may fade into the background. And there might be quiet.
Gwenevere Abriel: While you grow and develop who you are. There might be some quiet when you don't have a lot of friends. It might happen while you're learning how to set boundaries, how to recognize a healthy person as you become a healthy loving person to yourself and others. Right. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: But notice how you're seeing. I don't like this guy's behavior. Now, you write for and i and i didn't get to it quite in this last group, I did this morning at seven for some people, the discharge. Notice how you felt better after you hit someone
Gwenevere Abriel: All of that right, all of that shame.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's so uncomfortable that probably what's happening is, is wanting to be discharged. You don't want to actually have that feeling.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now I can't get behind PUNCHING SOMEONE I can't get behind that I can get behind going for a run punching a bag right doing, taking a karate class or getting in something where you're hitting a heavy bag, something like that, not a person right
Gwenevere Abriel: You always
Benny Chavez: Kind of glad because he was kind of a pain in the ass. Anyway, that's kind of, she said that was a blessing in disguise, because he he comes in here, acting like he owns a house and he doesn't live here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take it progressively at least you have the awareness that that dynamic was going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: There might be some norms in your in your family Benny an acceptance around violent behavior that isn't isn't mine or isn't your neighbors or isn't this person's with that person. So there's going to be some acceptability around violence that
Gwenevere Abriel: I might you might hear me sort of saying, well, maybe let's redirect energy to something more compassionate that contributes to health and growth that the solution being violence.
Gwenevere Abriel: When there's so many other options. Right. It's going to be hard for your therapist me to get behind actually using it as a solution, it will. I will. Kind of have too much by in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: But let's go back to you. Let's go back to you. Okay.
Benny Chavez: Like I've never, I was always a nice one, the one the jolly, the one the hard worker. You know, my brother was. It was always this one pain and as a scapegoat. This and that. But, uh, now I told myself, almost becoming him like
Benny Chavez: This place and it's just like that place is not good because it's dark funnel that was very lonely, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: scapegoat your blame for everything.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is your wife, Maddie. Yep. Okay. So she's here.
Oh,
Here we go.
Benny Chavez: You plug this in, please. I can't
Benny Chavez: Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, she is tech savvy. Hey, Maggie.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let's do a sound check make sure you can hear me. Can you hear me. I can't hear you just yet. Sometimes it takes a second
Gwenevere Abriel: Check, check, check.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi. Hi. Oh my gosh, this is so cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wow. I love this is so amazing. So Maddie, are you able to hear and see me okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, Ma'am, are out. Okay, so we have a half hour. And I wanted to ask you, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Next Friday. If we wanted to have a full hour if I have an opening and I was speaking with Benny about it at 7am next Friday. Would that work better if we had like a little bit more time to chit chat, too.
Mady Hernandez: Yeah, that would work a lot better.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we're going to do that.
Mady Hernandez: Let's see if we can get a
Gwenevere Abriel: Little bit. A little bit done here this morning, but let's plan on following up February 14 at 7am
Gwenevere Abriel: Very cool. So in general, Maddie. And I thought what we could do with a little bit of time we have right now is to say
Gwenevere Abriel: In the back of your mind. What were you thinking like, just very basic, we'll just start way out here just a broad sort of goal, like what you were hoping to get from just even even signing on here today what we think. What was your expectation
Mady Hernandez: better communication and for bending to understand boundaries, a little bit more
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice. Oh my gosh. Now you're talking my language, girl.
Gwenevere Abriel: I love communication and boundaries boy just love love love that. Okay, so, um, I would love to touch boundaries is a really big piece.
Gwenevere Abriel: But communication effective communication can help facilitate boundaries. So maybe we could start with some very fundamental communication.
Gwenevere Abriel: That let's say if bending knew it, and you know it, then you had the structure that you could talk about boundaries or whatever because once people have a structure of how to communicate safely without pissing each other off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then we can talk about whatever
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. OK, cool. I would love to do that. So I'll get as far as we can today. What I'd like to start with is has. Have you ever been in therapy or anything like that. Is this your first time kind of trying this out.
Mady Hernandez: Now, I've been in counseling and therapy before I had a very rough childhood, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so, um, well, positive one. We ended up kind of really trusting this therapist. Was it a positive experience.
Mady Hernandez: Oh yeah, but I've kind of shied away from doing like the exercises and stuff that my counselor had me doing back when I was like 15 or 16
Mady Hernandez: And I recently just started picking it back up probably like two, three days ago. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And are those exercises sort of mindfulness self regulation emotional regulation practices and setting boundaries. Is that what she was, she or he was encouraging.
Mady Hernandez: No cuz at the time when I was going to counseling. A lot of the time, I wouldn't, I wouldn't talk about my feelings. I want to talk about my issues until I would blow up at the person
Mady Hernandez: Yeah, so my counselor had me writing in a journal every day. And then after I wrote in it. He had me burning it so that my feelings were gone, and I didn't hurt anybody's feelings or anything like that. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's working for you right now.
Mady Hernandez: Um, I haven't. I didn't burn it, but I, I've been writing the last few days, and, um,
Mady Hernandez: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, well, I'm excited about something, first of all, that you're here right that says, you know, you kind of are given this a shot. And you want to kind of see what's possible in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I'd like to do just remind me, if you're able, I understand you were doing some childcare. Are you able to sit for like 510 minutes
Mady Hernandez: Yeah, yeah. Because it's barely 830 I just have to take my kids to the bus stop by 840
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so what I want to do is I'm going to pull up a worksheet and I'm going to go over some really fundamental communication skill and it's called an I feel you've probably heard it before. Super important one, but we forget it. It's real easy. It's three words. The word
Gwenevere Abriel: The word feel, I feel in this third word is an emotion word and it sounds like it's really easy, it's only three words but we don't do that. What most no
Gwenevere Abriel: No, we don't you know we do we replaced that third word
Gwenevere Abriel: With the word like
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah and that and something so simple, because you mentioned communication. Something so simple as that changes to trajectory of how the person hears it, because we go into that third word if we don't use an emotion word
Gwenevere Abriel: It's storytelling and guess what stories are subject to interpretation and feel blamed we get defensive, and off we go. And now we're pissed about something someone said in the I feel statement. So let's go today and I want to teach this concept of
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Good. I teach this one to you already
Benny Chavez: Oh yeah, I feel like. Yeah.
Benny Chavez: I feel I like like yesterday was it I'm kicking shame and blame or whatever, I think, I think I get this one. I'm not too sure about.
Gwenevere Abriel: The cues of what you said. I would say it needs to refresh.
Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: I pay attention to language. I'm like this little, little word detective.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go take, let's take a look at this together. And this sounds really easy. So don't give yourselves a hard time
Gwenevere Abriel: If you find this more difficult. Once you're actually doing it like let's say I I see that you guys are comfortable enough that you could actually do do an interaction where one person says, and I feel the other person that teach mirroring. Let's say we get that far.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to see it's harder. It's harder than you think. Because it's hard to own one's own feelings. It's difficult because we're risking being
Gwenevere Abriel: Rejected criticized abandoned right so it's actually kind of a scary thing to share our vulnerability our actual emotion.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but let's at least learn this structure can really change what normally might take days and days of arguing may only take know 1010 minutes of a discussion.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's read this together. The I statement taking responsibility for your feelings will help you improve your communication.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you feel upset or angry or any emotion, frankly, one way to achieve this is by using the I statement this technique will allow you to communicate what is upsetting while minimizing blaming
Gwenevere Abriel: If our statements feel to blaming the person we're trying to speak to will often becomes defensive and then they they can't hear you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so this is this is what we're going to do today. Today is just all about this. See where it says, I feel in the blank.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're barely beginning get into this other piece around when you blah blah blah because blah, blah, blah.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is going to be hard enough, because you guys I think based on some context of what Benny was saying there's a lot going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so it's going to be hard enough to even get this out. So we'll do a little practice. Can you see this well enough, this thing that says examples and then the regular and then this first one. You make me angry because you're always late. Do you see that daddy.
Mady Hernandez: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Am I saying your name correctly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, I'm going by the way.
Mady Hernandez: Nice to meet you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I jump in right away. I'm just like, oh boy. Boy, boy.
Benny Chavez: When he brow like my doctor my doctor
Gwenevere Abriel: I jumped right in and get right to work so um okay so let's do this. Let's look at this together. Do we all agree that that's kind of how I normally we talk you make me
Angry
Mady Hernandez: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so notice the finger we're pointing outward. Aren't we, you make me angry because you're always late. That's how most of us talk, we're going to flip the switch. We are going to say it differently, what are we going to do. We're going to own our own feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: And this is how it might sound I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: angry, frustrated rejected abandoned right in here. See that third word is frustrated. This is the key has to be an emotion word, it cannot be li ke cannot be tha t cannot be life cannot be that, but you're going to be so tempted I betcha, hey,
Benny Chavez: Yeah, this was a hard one for me. That's why I do remember it's
Gwenevere Abriel: A penny. I told you.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is no joke, it's three words and it takes so much concentration because we're not raised this way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Is this way. Okay. We're used to blaming people were used to rationalization justification. So I feel frustrated when you come home late
Benny Chavez: Because
Gwenevere Abriel: I stay awake worrying.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do another one. Regular this one, you never call you don't even care.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's how we talk right this is you don't you don't call and you don't care. I'm saying it like it's a fact. But if I said what emotion I feel I have done. You see it's nowhere in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, I'm lecturing someone with you never call and you know what I'm doing. I'm getting inside someone else's head and I'm saying you don't even care.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm interpreting I'm analyzing. But you know what, I didn't do I didn't risk my own vulnerability and say,
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel scared when I don't hear from you. After I've texted you. Over the last few hours. I feel scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: Guess what that person who's listening to me is not going to feel lane, they're going to go, oh my gosh, I can relate to that on the word do
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm. Let's do another one. So why don't you show off Benny and let's let's uh let's show some vulnerability here and kind of show
Gwenevere Abriel: Maddie, that you can struggle through this or maybe you'll find this just so easy and we get to brag about you. But let's let's you start. Take a look at the scenario.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm right here I'm I help you if you get clunky with it. Okay, so your friend keeps canceling plans on the last minute and just pretend it's me.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I've been. I've been. I've been. Your friend for 15 years and I keep canceling on you. Last minute last weekend you are waiting for me at the restaurant. When I call to tell you I will make it
Gwenevere Abriel: And you are feeling hurt go up here. Here's your structure. This is all you need to say, let's see if you can even do the I feel
Benny Chavez: I feel
Benny Chavez: very frustrated. I go first.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, now I've been doing it to you for 15 years and that's all, that's all you're feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: You sure
Gwenevere Abriel: You just froze up. Did you better just poop out
Gwenevere Abriel: I think he was having some battery issues.
Gwenevere Abriel: Benny, can you hear me you froze up there, huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hit your mute button, you're muted. Once you log off, it gets hankie hit your mute button toggle that back and forth. And let's see if we can wake it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Already back
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh man, your volumes terrible
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you hear me, or is it just me.
Mady Hernandez: I can barely hear
Gwenevere Abriel: You. I can't hear him at all, then a lot, all the way out and come right back.
Gwenevere Abriel: See squirming out of the homework already
Gwenevere Abriel: Money just joking.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not laughing You're crying. You know, we gotta laugh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, you know. So do you want to do that one. Since you're still in here. What would you say if I'm your friend 15 years I've been making plans with you and I just flaked out again. What would you say to me.
Mady Hernandez: I feel hurt.
Gwenevere Abriel: When I
Mady Hernandez: Want
Gwenevere Abriel: You take it even further. See if you can take it further, when I
Mady Hernandez: I feel hurt when you cancel on me last minute.
Mady Hernandez: Because I was looking forward to seeing you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Exactly. Oh, you're good at this. That's very nicely. I gotta get him in your notice here.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, Benny. Sound check.
Benny Chavez: Check, hear me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, so I went ahead and Maddie. Maddie did that one for you lucky dog.
Gwenevere Abriel: She did. She did great.
Gwenevere Abriel: So Maddie, why don't you do it so he can he can hear how adept you are at this
Mady Hernandez: I feel, I feel upset when you cancel on me last minute because
Mady Hernandez: I was looking forward to seeing you.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you said earlier, actually, you use the feeling word hurt.
Gwenevere Abriel: upsets interesting can't upset be sad jealous angry disgusted so upset. It's kind of a free for all, it's not as precise. If we really want someone to know what we're going through
Gwenevere Abriel: We want to be really, we want to get at a core emotion happy scared mad disgusted surprised we want to use one of those core emotions. If we want to be really, really efficient with it.
Mady Hernandez: Okay, Ben.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I give you a chance this time. So look at the second one.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are working on a project with a group
Gwenevere Abriel: Of people and one member is not completing their tasks on time, you have repeatedly had to finish their work which has been very frustrating. So see if you can do and I feel
Mady Hernandez: You need to brush your teeth.
Benny Chavez: Feel very
Benny Chavez: Good. Okay. Because
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And should I Maddie, do you need like two or three minutes. What do you need
Mady Hernandez: for child care. Yeah, give me like two, three minutes, just so I can get the kids to brush your teeth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, excellent. So
Gwenevere Abriel: You did a great job, Benny do another one down here. This one.
Benny Chavez: A friend who becomes mood.
Benny Chavez: Swings and damage. Yeah, I want to borrow one once again and you're feeling worried. I feel very
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's drop the very end.
Benny Chavez: On easy
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Benny Chavez: And but you're worrying nicely.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're worried see their step telling you what emotion. So go ahead, do it, do it again, all the way through.
Benny Chavez: I feel worried when you borrow my movies because
Benny Chavez: They're always damaged and they're always messed up. Yeah.
Benny Chavez: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you worried your
Gwenevere Abriel: Friend is going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Not treat them respectfully and return them damaged again.
Benny Chavez: Yes, I'm very worried
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now that's different than you saying, Hey, man. You're a jerk. You don't take care of my stuff. You see the difference.
Benny Chavez: Yeah, yeah, we've
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, your friend has no question about what you're worried about
Benny Chavez: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: You've named it you own your own emotion you didn't blame them. You described the causal relationship between how you're feeling and a particular behavior. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'm going to introduce you guys to something else which is mirroring and I'll do it again when she comes back. But the more we get to know this, the easier even Friday is going to do because will already have these some of these basics.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do mirroring okay so mirroring right mirroring is you say back what someone said you don't interpret
Gwenevere Abriel: You try to hear all the words they use, especially the emotion word. If someone says,
Gwenevere Abriel: Uneasy. Then you say on easy if someone says frustrated you echo back that emotion word really key, keep your eye out for the emotion word
Gwenevere Abriel: And try to use their particular language because what does a mirror do America doesn't say, you know, you have Short, brunette hair when I look in the mirror. I don't see sure it Burnett. Right, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I see a blonde.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so a mirror.
Is
Gwenevere Abriel: Reflecting back what you heard trying and it's got to be a really short statement because we can't remember.
Gwenevere Abriel: A lot of information in our active short term memory. If we go on a whole paragraph, we start to lose the details we lose the specific words that were used. So we want to be notice these are short and concise.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel uneasy and thinking about lending you a movie because you kind of bring them back busted up
Benny Chavez: Period.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is what Marin would look like, Oh, I hear you, you, you're worried about lending me movies again because every time I bring them back to you. They're all busted up
Gwenevere Abriel: That's very, I basically just regurgitated what they said it's not condescending, we do have to pay attention to our tone. We don't want to be like passive aggressive about it. We don't want to be. What do we call mimicking we don't want to do the mimicking tone.
Gwenevere Abriel: We want to use our compassionate, you know, let me see if I understand you. That's how we want to start with a mirror.
Benny Chavez: Or a bad habit of doing that people take it off like I'm being smart answers and dinner. I'm not
Benny Chavez: I'm. Don't be really exercise will be really good for me then.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and you would want to
Gwenevere Abriel: Check your tone, tone of voice. So if, if, if the voices to monitor if it's like this, you know. So what you're saying is this. If it's all one level, a like that people will hear it maybe as as mimicking
Gwenevere Abriel: Or fits to up and down the process is going to up and down, people can feel like you're making fun of them. So being a smartass like you said. So we not only is it what we say, but it's also how we say
Gwenevere Abriel: And and you may want to do you have pen and paper Benny do. So, write this down. There's something. Notice what I did with my mirroring just now is I had this little statement that came right in front
Benny Chavez: And it was
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me see if I understand you.
Benny Chavez: Okay, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me see if I got it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me see if I hear you.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're saying you see that
Benny Chavez: These little markers.
Benny Chavez: Doing great. You're doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, that's a little bit later. That's actually next level. This one right here, really want to get into it can
Gwenevere Abriel: Just, just doing this one exercise for the person who's listening to you, they can feel validated that would be amazing.
Gwenevere Abriel: That just this one thing validation. We'll get into a little bit later. Let's just do this one. But notice the you probably aren't doing that introductory phrase. Let me see if I hear you correctly.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right.
Mady Hernandez: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, yes. Let me see if I hear you correctly, what I heard you say is
Gwenevere Abriel: I return movies damaged.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you feel uneasy about money.
Gwenevere Abriel: Again, you see it.
Yep.
Benny Chavez: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna, I'm going to role play one with you and I'm going to come at you pretty hard at the reason why the reason why mirroring is difficult.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is because
Gwenevere Abriel: Our mechanisms come up
Benny Chavez: You guys
Gwenevere Abriel: Need to hear this really loud and clear when we're mirroring. It is not the same thing as agreeing should hopefully she'll come back. It's not the same thing as agreeing
Gwenevere Abriel: To understand
Gwenevere Abriel: It does mean you agree, you're showing another human being that you can listen
Benny Chavez: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. It doesn't mean you're weak. Just because you can hear it, it just means I can hear you. You are a reasonable, rational human being. I can hear you. I'm listening.
Gwenevere Abriel: And guess what once someone feels heard, like you said, they can probably they may feel validated. They may be done.
Gwenevere Abriel: They might that might be, it might be all they ever needed
Benny Chavez: Yeah, for instance, this morning when I, she said, This is the worst time I have to go to the meeting and I said,
Benny Chavez: No, I said, well, I said, well, it would be a lot to me if you do show up. He says, Well, I've tried the last 13 years and I don't see what whatever she said
Benny Chavez: And I said, you know what you have tried the last 15 years and I really do appreciate that a lot to me if you show up to this meeting today and I didn't show up, you know, it just
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, you didn't call her names. You didn't make her feel bad. You stuck with what it means to you that was
Gwenevere Abriel: That was really smart and your tongue just now was really sweet was very kind. I hope that's why you said it. If you did, it makes sense that she showed up here today. Yeah.
Benny Chavez: She's, she's taking the kids to the bus stop. She'll be right back.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, yeah, even if she doesn't come back today she I, my guess is you know she smiled a little bit. She did the activity, she got to see me. See, I'm a real person. You know, I'm not mean and critical and hopefully not creepy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so hopefully then on Friday, I already know you know I'm going to be meeting with Gwen and and this is what it will look
Benny Chavez: Like
Gwenevere Abriel: This right you know i mean she at least got a first introduction to me. Yeah, so
Benny Chavez: Next week, everybody.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right. So I really let's take time and really hone this skill. I'm going to come at you pretty hard. When I say that I'm going to, I'm going to think of something that might piss you off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, because mirroring is really hard when our defense mechanism comes up and guess what we're like this in our head. That's not true.
Benny Chavez: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can't hear it anymore. It's really hard to be just be listening to mirror back not thinking how I'm wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: How I'm off on my facts.
Gwenevere Abriel: This listening is hard to do, especially when you're like,
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't like how you see me. I don't like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because some of it might be true. I don't like hearing something that I don't like in myself. I certainly don't want to hear it. And someone else. Okay, so our defense mechanism comes up and be like, I want to hear any of this.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's natural. But this. That's why listening so hard, because some little part of it might be true, doesn't mean you're a bad person. It just might mean there's some responsibility there. And so it's going to bring up a defense mechanism. So let's give this a try.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sorry, Benny. My ears are really bad today.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, here we go. Let me think of something that might really upset you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I got one. You ready, ready as you're doing this, Benny. I want you to go to accountability, responsibility, right. Remember, we're detoxing from Shane You can't go to blaming yourself like as in all of you is bad can't go there anymore. Now, just go to
Gwenevere Abriel: I just want to hear what what this woman has to say I want to show when that I can hear her.
Gwenevere Abriel: I am a good person, you might be saying the whole time I'm lovable. I'm a good person and I can hear another human beings perspective and I can show her I'm listening.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to have to hold on to yourself and really believe that you're a good person.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, here we go. So I'm going to keep it nice, nice and short. You want to say, let me see if I heard you correctly, and you want to make sure you use my feeling word and some of the data that I said alright so here we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, Benny. I don't trust you. I feel scared, you're going to end up
Gwenevere Abriel: Using again.
Benny Chavez: Well, I'm sorry. You feel like that.
Nope.
Benny Chavez: Sunday, correct me.
Benny Chavez: If I understand you correctly, you have a feeling
Benny Chavez: Trust me.
Benny Chavez: Coming to you. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you didn't use my feeling word. How do I feel
Benny Chavez: You feel pissed off or you feel a know you were
Benny Chavez: Here. Yeah, you
Benny Chavez: Know, I said.
Gwenevere Abriel: I said, scared. So notice how hard that was you reverted to. I'm sorry, that's not marrying a mirror doesn't say girl, you should be a brunette kind of ugly as a blonde.
Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: You need to work out, baby. It doesn't do that my mirror doesn't apologize. Right. Let's do it again, notice how hard it is. I told you this is hard.
Benny Chavez: You
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, just how the feeling were disappeared. I flipped it and put the feeling word at the end. But you got to be a detective and keep your eye out for it. Your ear out for it. I'm going to do it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll make it easier on you and I'll do it. I'll make an I feel statement. Make it easier on you keep your eye out for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take a deep you so here's what you want to do you want to take a deep breath. Want to look at your note and say, let me see if I hear you correctly, and then you just mirror back what you heard. All right. I'll make it easier on you and us though I feel structure.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel angry when you
Gwenevere Abriel: Did everything I told you not to do. And I've been telling you for years.
Benny Chavez: You probably
Deep breath.
Benny Chavez: Let me see.
Benny Chavez: Let me see if I understand this. Okay.
Benny Chavez: Because
Benny Chavez: I do everything. Can the complete opposite of what you want, but I'm very sorry for that and I will work on
Gwenevere Abriel: Mirror doesn't apologize. You're doing it again.
Benny Chavez: The second time.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm sorry to
Gwenevere Abriel: Benny, here's the deal.
Gwenevere Abriel: The person on the other side. This is not an apology.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, this is because guess what have you made promises and not kept them.
Benny Chavez: I guess so.
Gwenevere Abriel: And don't bother. Then don't bother apologizing do differently. That's how you'll be measured. Most people right after and when it's years and years of it. They're just like place.
Yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Just don't bother.
Yeah.
Benny Chavez: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just
Gwenevere Abriel: And guess what that apology almost makes this moment about you. You see how that can happen. You can't take a chance. It's too important. We've got to do it differently. You're almost there, but to how to to you don't apologize. Let's drop that piece.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we're gonna I'm gonna come at you again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice how I'm picking ones that probably are activating for you a little bit
Benny Chavez: Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm trying to make it so that you can really when she does this when she actually says I feel to you, you need to be ready. Yeah.
Benny Chavez: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I'm trying to pick one kind of pulling from the air here that might have gone on.
Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, you tell me what's your biggest complaint about you. Let's see if I can really make it relevant. What's her biggest complaint.
Benny Chavez: About
Benny Chavez: Abandoned i mean
Gwenevere Abriel: Her biggest complaint about you.
Benny Chavez: How I did ever. I used to go to the casino all night long and not want to cuddle with her night.
Benny Chavez: You know, I'd be sleeping on the couch. You're not going to tell me you want to. I mean, you can come to bed and I would sleep on the couch. I mean who does that you know well
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not about gambling and losing all the money that's not what it's about. It's about affection.
Benny Chavez: Lot of fiction to nonfiction gambling.
Benny Chavez: Just a lot of stuff I was doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well, is it real. Did you lose like really important chunks of money to gambling.
Benny Chavez: Oh, yeah.
Benny Chavez: I were to go and yeah and I wasn't given money to bills but like the other half hour just like you know we didn't dinner for the next week or something, you know,
Benny Chavez: Everywhere else, and just turn when you shouldn't have to bother them. No, there's no reason for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, let me do one more. Right before we jump out. Okay, here we go. Deep breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: This one might sting.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you know what, Benny. I
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel betrayed. When you throw our money away at the casino.
Like you don't care about this family.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, yeah. Deep breath. Use the structure
Benny Chavez: Well, let me do
Benny Chavez: This correctly, you feel betrayed because
Benny Chavez: I spend all the money at the casino.
Benny Chavez: I will try to
Gwenevere Abriel: Just about to make a promise, weren't you
Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: What
Benny Chavez: I'm not gonna go no more.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's not what America does it doesn't apologize and it doesn't make promises you're jumping way ahead.
Benny Chavez: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is hard for you if any
Gwenevere Abriel: If you're used to telling people making promises and maybe I don't know you too too well but
Gwenevere Abriel: If you have a pattern of not keeping
Gwenevere Abriel: Up, you're just going to piss her off.
Gwenevere Abriel: To understand that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So don't do it. Don't make it about you feeling relief.
Gwenevere Abriel: And making a promise. You can't keep instead
Gwenevere Abriel: Just try and my way, you haven't done it my way. Just see if it works. If you have this woman who actually feels heard
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't have to fight the fact that there was another promise.
Gwenevere Abriel: That this man may not keep Nope. She doesn't have to be distracted by that an empty. Sorry, and some promise. Maybe that's not what she wants. Why don't we wait and hear what she wants.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's do one more time. See if you can get it and I cut you off because you were about to tell me how you're going to solve it. That's not what America does America justice. Let me see if I got that if I if I hear you correctly.
Gwenevere Abriel: I spent all our money at the casino really important you know money. We were saving for something and what it means to you, sweetheart, is I don't care about this family.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you hear that because remember I included that but you went to solution. You didn't include what it means to her is you don't care about this family.
Benny Chavez: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: We got to hear the meaning it has for her. It may mean something completely different for you. We're not here to agree or disagree. We're here to show
Gwenevere Abriel: We can listen and it's huge. Look how much time. This is taking all I had to do is just say back what someone said it's harder than you think. Yeah. One more time. We're going to do another one.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we got to go. I know. Someone's knocking on my door here.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what you I feel rejected when you you say you love me, but you don't you don't show me cuddly affection.
Take your time.
Benny Chavez: Let me see if I understand this, you feel rejected because I don't show you know section.
Benny Chavez: betrayed our side into somebody
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay but but that was what you just went off on your own again.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know
Benny Chavez: Nobody showed me
Gwenevere Abriel: Any. This isn't about
Benny Chavez: You. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's hard for you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, write this down. This is the part that comes right at the end, after you do the mirror. This is what you say.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maddie. Did I get that right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then write this down. If She nods their head like this yeah then write this down.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is there more
Gwenevere Abriel: You very quickly go to you. You're making it about you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know your promise to do differently, how you feel.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to flip and you're going to be able to do the same thing she's gonna have to just mirror you but no promises. This is just the art of listening and it's harder than you thought, isn't it.
Benny Chavez: Yeah yeah so far.
Benny Chavez: Yeah, it's
Benny Chavez: Like I'm trying to deal with all of it, too. It's usually, you know, I go back right away or something, but this time it's just like, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can do it differently. There might be some neat things happening, she's starting to revisit some of the old skills. It sounds like she learned in her own individual therapy.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're
Gwenevere Abriel: Doing some skills with me. Let's see. And you're taking my feedback really well because I keep interrupting you. I keep redirect to you. You're doing great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, because it's hard to hear people sort of say, I'm not, you know, I'm not doing it right, which talks about, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I will see you on in group next Monday. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you need me to message, your doctor to get medication.
Benny Chavez: No, you got me till Monday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you'll be good to you. I will see you then. My next clients here.
Benny Chavez: He one
Gwenevere Abriel: Practice that mirroring
Benny Chavez: I will respond by Monday. Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Bye bye.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi.
Shaun w: Are you doing
Excellent.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let me open up a note here you've got really good sound really good video. This is awesome.
Shaun w: Yeah, I agree. I guess it was already on there. I agree. This min ago. Sweet.
Shaun w: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Still great
Gwenevere Abriel: Just, just, just hang out. I've got open up a note for us to kind of stay on track and you already swung by virtual clinic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, did you go by virtual clinic this morning.
Shaun w: Yeah, I went by there to get the number. There's only way they give me the number
Gwenevere Abriel: Fantastic. My ears are kind of messed up this morning. So you're going to see me doing this weird head tilting
Gwenevere Abriel: I just want to let you know what that was our behavior is me trying to feel better. So just ignore it.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I had it for many years. Okay, so let's see.
What we got here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I noticed yesterday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Correct me if I if I'm inaccurate. There was almost this like I can't relate to these concepts of guilt and shame. Is that how it felt. I can't relate to this topic.
Shaun w: No, I don't have shame. I didn't know about the guilt that we're doing the chain.
Gwenevere Abriel: So tell me, tell me more about your understanding of healthy guilt, let's say,
Shaun w: Healthy guilt. Uh huh.
Shaun w: Oh, not only feel guilty about nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: You really don't
Gwenevere Abriel: And so how do you live with people in a home if you don't feel guilt for something you did or didn't do. How do you live, do you live with someone in a home without like they're being
Shaun w: Lot of arguing here.
Shaun w: Like how do I live with someone good why my boss feel guilty.
Shaun w: When
Shaun w: You. Yeah, I feel guilty for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, you haven't told me a story yet. How is it that you function in society without the ability to have remorse. How do you do it.
Shaun w: Bob, what should I feel remorse about though.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so, Sean, you're going to be better at this than me. Okay. But let's just take a look at your goals. Most we're gonna move on because you're, you're quite adept
Shaun w: I don't know who's done that, though. I don't know. You told me that feel guilty about something I would
Gwenevere Abriel: Certainly I'm not telling you to feel guilty. I'm actually asking you a question.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're answering me with a question. So I'm not getting any information. Let's just shift gears. We're going to spend that
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go to the things that you do have
Shaun w: Oh, I got asked you some. Can you do a mental health assessment on me.
Shaun w: I appeal wanted to ask that.
Shaun w: Yeah, can you, I need to do a mental health assessment. I guess that's part of my parole.
Gwenevere Abriel: So maybe today. I'll write that down is about making sure we look at having a good release of information. Okay, we'll make sure that we have that
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so one of your goals is I want to get a job. We'll just go sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: Tangible behaviors. Let's see what we got here, we have
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm job assembly line doing bracelets solar panels, two weeks. Oh, bracket, sorry brackets for solar panels, two weeks, I get bored easily you had shared really useful to understand that about yourself. That's important. I don't hold
Gwenevere Abriel: A job real good held a job as a manager of a warehouse for two years. We talked about that. I ran a warehouse. You did the hiring and firing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Without job you have given two weeks notice and you wanted wanted to be in your family. So how do you do it around his board and popping up at this job, you
Shaun w: Know it's kind of, it's really fast paced
Shaun w: It's nonstop for eight hours.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Shaun w: Yeah. Before we get to 20 minute breaks loose. When we were working on top.
Gwenevere Abriel: And are there any people there sometimes individuals have a challenge in working with authority. And what's your boss, like, What's your relationship with your boss.
Shaun w: I just do it. He says,
Shaun w: Oh, are you ready to do whatever he says
Shaun w: Only have a relationship with them. He just tells me to do something I do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is a relationship. The word relationship is you know them you interact with them. That's what the word relationship means you are relating he tells me to do something I do it. That's a relationship.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so there's no issue you basically don't challenge him don't question it. You just whatever you tell me, I'ma do it.
Shaun w: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Has there ever been a time when he asked you to do something that you're like, this is a stupid idea. I don't want to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no. Okay, well that's convenient for you, right, because you don't have to sort of question.
Gwenevere Abriel: His choices.
Shaun w: I do the same thing. Almost every day. Hmm. So, yesterday I did something yesterday, different they put me on a different line yesterday because they broke down the lines. A lot of people didn't show up to work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and you have another goal, which is I want to get a good relationship with my kids you let me in a little bit last time you let me know about
Gwenevere Abriel: You have a son that's 18 you have a 15 year old, you have a 14 year old.
Gwenevere Abriel: So she's going to dance. I think your, your child, some other
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, a plan. Oh, this summer, you're going to get to see them. Your that's your hope. Right.
Shaun w: Yeah, that's my hope.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're currently living with your mom. You're living with your nephew your niece, your sister with three dogs and you get along good with everybody. That's the one. I'm curious about
Gwenevere Abriel: So one of the reasons why.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm talking about guilt with you right now has to do with
Gwenevere Abriel: A general function in society. If we have a society, let's say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Where nobody
Gwenevere Abriel: Cares that they've hurt someone, how well would that society work would you say
Gwenevere Abriel: Well picture your own home.
Gwenevere Abriel: Picture if nobody cared that they had hurt someone in the home. Would everyone be able to live together.
Shaun w: Why not
Gwenevere Abriel: Hmm, probably not.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: So that it earlier. Remember we were you know we touched on kill and that's what that was. It was about. Maybe it's about the word, maybe it has to do with you may actually take responsibility.
Gwenevere Abriel: For what you do and don't do you may actually be doing it. And the word just may not have the same definition for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe shifting to responsibility accountability that might be one. Do you see yourself as someone who's responsible for your actions and accountable for what you do or don't do
Shaun w: Yeah.
Shaun w: Yeah, I go to jail. I go to prison.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, that's something bad. What about just regular I'm responsible for, you know, if someone says, hey, I need you to pick something up at the store I pick it up. And if I don't, I'm kind of maybe all hurt their feelings, because I let him down, just that.
Shaun w: Now we have we have we all help each other around here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what do you do to help around
Gwenevere Abriel: Your family.
Shaun w: But even a clean cut through. I'm the one that throws out the trash, I hope, clean, I
Shaun w: Do whatever they asked me to do this. My sister's also is, you know, I mean, my mom loser to we all know
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, if you didn't care if you didn't have empathy, right, if you didn't care about someone else's feelings you wouldn't be inclined to clean you wouldn't be inclined to throw out the trash.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. Okay. And so if you didn't, let's say, one day, you didn't throw out the trash. You're just extra tired like wow you wiped out. Here's where guilt might come in.
Gwenevere Abriel: I slept in.
Shaun w: My I forgot to throw the trash.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's guilt. Now you see we're getting closer to to the shared standing. Yeah, it's not
Shaun w: Yeah, but I don't. I just don't understand what am I supposed to feel guilty about so I'm supposed to think of something to feel guilty about
Shaun w: Yeah, I have no i don't know what that question means I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Gonna be honest I'm clueless about what that means.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I don't know what that means.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's continue the where we do have overlap, which is
Gwenevere Abriel: In if we have a shared definition of what healthy guilt is just for our work together. It's taking responsibility for your actions taking
Gwenevere Abriel: Accountability for things you did or didn't do. Let's say you you called someone a name you like, Oh man, I lost my temper.
Gwenevere Abriel: That would be healthy, guilt, right. Oh, I called someone a name.
Gwenevere Abriel: I lost my temper. Some. My bad, sorry about that, pure and simple. I take ownership for what I did I see them hurt someone else I acted outside my core values. I really don't like myself as someone who swears
Gwenevere Abriel: And call someone a name, pure and simple. That's what I'm talking about. That make sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. So now when I say, you know, are you, are you owning your grain of truth a little bit of truth about your responsibility. That's what I mean by guilt.
Now,
Gwenevere Abriel: Shame, which is this thing that you can't relate to, we agree. You said I can't relate to this, we agree.
Shaun w: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is this thing. And you're going to see it in group that but you're going to be around.
Shaun w: I feel shameful about what I did with my kids I feel shame about that. Oh.
Shaun w: Yeah, yeah, I just say my I kind of left them flat. And when I was in prison. I left them for all those years, and it was my fault. This last time I was in prison, it was my fault.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the one. Yeah. And what will happen. So that was powerful that you you let that vulnerability with me that you made that possible. So Sean what I was saying in group has to do with healthy guilt is let's say it's around I left my kids flat.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you're going to solutions like, you know what I'm going to make sure when I get out that I show them.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's in the past. I'm gonna write letters. I'm going to work on myself and I'm going to work my recovery and I'm going to spend time with them.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's healthy watch. Now if we go to shame. It's I'm a bad person. I'm never going to be any good of a dad, I'm worthless as a dad now. Right. So maybe you are more in
Gwenevere Abriel: Healthy guilt, where you're you're making sure you're communicating you're making a plan for the summer. Yes, it was shame, Sean, you would be wiped out.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'd be wiped out. You're breaking up. Yeah, yeah, that's
Gwenevere Abriel: Thanks for telling me that, let's do a sound check
Again,
Shaun w: Hey, you know, you look like, hey, I want to show my mom you look almost identical to my brothers ex wife Ashley. You guys look like twins.
Shaun w: I want to show my mama. You guys look at almost just like
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're
Gwenevere Abriel: The connection. Now how's the connection.
Gwenevere Abriel: Connections. Good. Okay.
Shaun w: You're breaking up all crazy was going, oh man.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: It could be, Sean. And this is how you can check whether shames getting activated or not is if you're labeling yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: when when when Shane is the feeling, what are you calling yourself, what's that voice like what do you, what do you, what do you name calling. What's that inner critic sound like inside your head.
Shaun w: Yes. Well, I wasn't a good dad. Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so what does a good dad do he
Shaun w: Takes care of his family.
Gwenevere Abriel: What does that look like, how will you write take action and take care of his family. What will you be doing because right now they are way over here. They're far away.
Gwenevere Abriel: What can you be doing that represents I'm in my solution. I'm not in shame. I'm in the solution. I'm taking care of my family.
It can look really cool.
Yeah, that's right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it turns out after you and I talked a little bit more. We have a lot more overlap about the definition, then maybe you initially thought is that a possibility. Yeah. Okay, so I'm guessing maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe what was here before that was. Were you worried that I was trying to make you feel bad about something.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no.
Shaun w: I just it was, I guess I'll just thinking, I didn't really, at that time, I didn't think about, I felt bad about
Gwenevere Abriel: Ah ok but
Shaun w: Until you pointed out, yeah. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we hung in there. And now we have a shared understanding is beautiful, very nice. So again, just to review.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll find yourself maybe choosing if you want to choosing the word guilt like man I feel guilty that I let my family down and left them flat.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is healthy. It gets you doing the next right thing but shame. This is the one I'm recommending people detox from has to do with I'm worthless. I'm a bad person, and you don't try anymore. He just don't. You don't even try to be this better, Dad.
Shaun w: He's throwing a lot at
Shaun w: The loss of hope.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it. That's it. So if you catch yourself saying the word I am this phrase I am bad I'm unworthy I'm worthless. I'll never they then you know your shames activated in the invitation here and treatment is to shift it and go to
Gwenevere Abriel: And I can't go there. I can't go there because then
Gwenevere Abriel: The potential for isolation, the potential for secrecy, the potential for a relapse goes up when I'm in shape. So I can't do that. I gotta push it aside. I've got to get in. I've got to own my part. All right, I'm a good person who
Gwenevere Abriel: Made some crummy decisions, but I'm not making them today I'm making good decisions. Today I'm on it. I'm on point.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can't go to shame. It'll wipe you out.
Shaun w: You see, yet.
Shaun w: I will try to avoid it. Try to avoid it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Got it. You got it. All right, get into right. What can I do differently today. How can I get in my solution. I think, I think we've got a real clear picture of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, right. So let's go over to. I'm going to go over to your documents and see what release of information already have, because maybe we have a good one. Already there for your PO and we won't have to do one
Shaun w: Yeah, well, yeah, I just stopped pointed out other cancer there I was gonna get them into the whole says, I guess it says it on my wall. He asked me to ask you that if you give me a mental health assessment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you
Shaun w: Guys.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you have that document in front of you.
Shaun w: Like go get it.
Shaun w: Hold on, real quick, I gotta put my Xbox down
Shaun w: Right here somewhere.
Shaun w: Mental health assessment.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you did the bio psychosocial with me, you
Gwenevere Abriel: You basically got one. I asked you about suicidality, I asked you about homeless. Oh.
Shaun w: Good. You feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Like
Shaun w: It. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of cover that I tend to focus very much on the substance use, because typically that's why people are seeking treatment.
Shaun w: It do
Gwenevere Abriel: It didn't get into personality disorders. It doesn't didn't Delve much into that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But we can, if you have a release of information I can make that available.
Gwenevere Abriel: To your officer.
Shaun w: Yeah, just says, A on my pride somewhere in here. I gotta find it by next time. The next group. I'll bring it
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Shaun w: I'll get it.
Shaun w: It just says they want a mental health assessment of me.
Shaun w: I don't know, whatever that is.
Gwenevere Abriel: They go by many names. Oftentimes, it is a bio psycho.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And yeah, so you probably he may be satisfied with a copy of the one that we already did. Wouldn't that be convenient.
Shaun w: Yeah, it'll be convenient.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, let's do this while you're walking around, Sean. What do you find your, your officers card.
Shaun w: Yeah, I got I got his number
Gwenevere Abriel: And the card will have his title the address the phone number.
Shaun w: Yeah, I don't have. I don't think I have a card for that day.
Gwenevere Abriel: You may have a document that has that
Shaun w: Information on it though. No, I don't, because they gave it to me when I got to the pro when I when I got to when I got to the office, but I never got a card or nothing from him. I never got nothing from him, he just he comes by and
Shaun w: He just told me he was
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you know and then it goes through the reason I'm being so specific is I'm seeing right now if we can get this done.
Gwenevere Abriel: So do you have the exact first last name of this officer, as well as his title, the actual physical address the phone number and the fax number do you have those things for him.
Shaun w: Regardless, phone number, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's do this. How about we do this, Sean. Since we have time and
Gwenevere Abriel: I think it's something you want is to make sure this officers getting everything that you know you've made a switch that this is where your treatments happening, how about we do this, you tell me if you like this, if this is a good use of your time if you log out right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you call that number and you ask for the following my the officers proper right the first and last name. Got that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, his title. In other words, he's called a whatever you know diversionary pretrial release office or whatever his actual title is the address.
Gwenevere Abriel: Phone number and fax number
Shaun w: I got his phone number.
Gwenevere Abriel: I remember, I remember
Shaun w: That all right. I'll do right now me, call me know
Shaun w: I'm going to be on call. I can call them with you on the phone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Go for it. If they're not, they're asked for a supervisor, this is general information there shouldn't be anything secret about it. You know what I mean like you can get it from anybody.
Shaun w: Yeah, let me see if it works.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll stay here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can log on, if you need to. I'll stay right here.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: While you're doing that, I'm going to see if I can pull up a release and we can do it inside the session. Otherwise, we'll have to go to virtual clinic.
Shaun w: To hear me. Yeah. All right. He's calling them right now. It's ringing. Very nice.
Shaun w: Hey, Mr. V saw my member my counselor wants to, I'm getting a mental health assessment done she needs your first last name, title, address, phone. In fact, I got the phone. I need to fax fax you over the for the mental health assessment.
Shaun w: Okay, you want to make sure everything is need your first and last name, title address and fax number
Shaun w: Email is this one. Send me your email.
Shaun w: Okay. That would be cool. She's she wants to she wants all that information and she's gonna send that over to you.
Shaun w: Alright, thank you.
Shaun w: Okay, bye.
Shaun w: Okay, he's gonna he's gonna email it to me. He's gonna take that he don't have a fax number the email. They don't do facts. He said no more emails. Okay, so he's, he's a text in it, you know.
Beautiful.
Beautiful. Alright, so I'm going to go to this website here and see if I can
Gwenevere Abriel: There were periods of time where I was able to effectively get releases done like like right now and then other times like Braveheart the owners changing something and I'm not able to do it. I'm going to try it, see if I can make it happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, because then we knock that out and we can get moving.
All right.
Shaun w: First last name.
Shaun w: So Long it takes him.
Shaun w: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll be his title will be typically we when we sign our name we do our the title, like I'm a licensed marriage and family therapist or
Shaun w: Yeah, probation, parole officer.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. He'll. He'll have it in there, we should be able to see it.
Shaun w: Yeah, what's wrong with your ears. What do you do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm the best way I can describe it. I don't have a diagnosis for it. It's like, you ever been in the bottom of a pool.
Shaun w: Yeah, the chlorine. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, or gone in an airplane and it
Shaun w: Yeah, it
Gwenevere Abriel: Basically, does that all day to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and I've had it for so many years that I forget to tell people, and I write, and I
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm constantly trying it. And then people like what's wrong with people.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know, but I'm trying some solutions. I'm trying all the time. And some days are better than others. And today, just
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let me focus here. What I'm looking for is a forms looking for forums. That's not easy for me to
It's at the bottom.
Maybe
Possibly
Shaun w: You see me.
Shaun w: See a text you
Informed consent.
Shaun w: Consent release of information. Don't you have to sign all that stuff when you get to sign on right heart. You have to sign reform release information, all that stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: You did for some people, you probably did it for a family member. This is pretty precise I'm incredibly conservative about privileged information. I like my license.
Shaun w: Here it is. He sent a photo see
Shaun w: Yeah. Can you send me his card. It's Alberto or diesel.
Gwenevere Abriel: So why don't you share your screen, you know how to do that.
Shaun w: Yeah. Want me to send it to you. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I love it.
Shaun w: Now, how do I share my screen here, I can just email it I mean I'll tell
Shaun w: You
Gwenevere Abriel: If it's a text, text it if it's an email, I can give you my email, whichever you prefer.
Shaun w: Right now.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, oh he yes so he just took a picture of his car. That's great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so his title, right, we can see it is probation, parole officer, too. So it's like this tier level region to special programs intensive supervision. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Very cool, very. That's great. We need our
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm still struggling to try and find this form.
Shaun w: I kind of didn't want to trust you with all that I got was, when you asked me that day I got right away. I got kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Know,
Shaun w: You gotta you all my appeals know before I was like kind of tripping on that day when you asked me, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It can feel threatening, right, like what is this
Gwenevere Abriel: You what she going to do with
Shaun w: Our to trust people
Gwenevere Abriel: MAN, ISN'T IT EVER. It's so hard, because you've had a lot of people have hurt you, you know,
Shaun w: Yeah I know I have
Shaun w: But I've also heard people too. So, I mean, it goes both ways.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I trust myself. Okay. I happen to be someone who I take very seriously safety and the therapeutic relationship. So in here, it's not going to be about me.
Shaun w: Just being who I who I am cops.
Shaun w: Don't like me. So they were they, they want to lock me up as fast as possible and
Shaun w: He told me that when I have something happens to me his boss gets involved because I'm so high profile. He said that when anything happens, the main people get to get involved. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well in here, Sean. What will probably happen is somewhat like what we had early on in the discussion around guilt, right, notice how you tell me if this is true for you. And this is a therapeutic moment right here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you notice how when I said, You know, I want your probation officers number or when I started to say, hey, do you ever feel guilty about anything. Did you notice yourself feeling defensive feeling angry.
Shaun w: I got defensive when you asked for the number because I was like, Why does she want my appeals number like why does she need my appeals number. You don't need my appeals homebrew like you know i mean
Shaun w: So to me, that got me kind of like a red flag went up. Like why would you want my peels number. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that will probably happen again in our work together those feelings of threat perceived threat will come up
Gwenevere Abriel: Even though I know my my interest is in service to you, right, because I need to be able to communicate what you want me to do this officer like my intentions are good, but because of your life history, Sean.
Gwenevere Abriel: You will, you will at times and I don't have any control over it, you will perceive me as a threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the best we can do is you can catch it as early as you can and say,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm feeling defensive or what do you want like why you want this. You just need to pay attention to you how you're feeling and asked me a question if it comes up and I will try to catch
Gwenevere Abriel: Up if you're being defensive and I might say, hey, did something just happened. Yeah. You know what I mean. And then in that space right in there. We can check in with each other and we can see if maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: I came across like I was crossing a boundary, maybe. Or I was going somewhere that you were uncomfortable and right in that space. We can learn a little bit about what how far we can go about talking about certain things and noise.
Shaun w: Do you know what
Shaun w: You know what happened to me. One of my best friends set me up on murder charges and then he comes forward three years later and media, he lied.
Shaun w: And then the I was sitting on death row lazy. I didn't get convicted yet but they moved me to death row were desperately needs are they as
Shaun w: I was a county jail hold in prison. And I was thinking, and how they put me in prison. I've never been convicted of nothing.
Shaun w: And so by then he came forward admit that he lied and everything and then they found evidence and then I end up they end up throwing me back on the streets. Right. They didn't give me that I tried to sue them and I lost because they didn't testified
Shaun w: Yeah, so it kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: How many years that take for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's four years. You can never get those years back.
Shaun w: YEAH, MY LIFE WAS THREATENED EVERY DAY BECAUSE THEY THOUGHT THAT I KILLED two kids. So every day, they thought, I've heard some old family. They said that I went up and murdered.
Shaun w: For people and I had nothing to do with that. Are you been to this place. I'm talking to cops. I've never even been there. How are you guys arresting me, please. I've never been
Shaun w: You know I'm saying that I didn't understand that because I know there could be no physical evidence because I've never been there, you know, and then it was this is it's a lie. It's gonna be. It's a big murky saw here and
Shaun w: It just really, that's where trust comes in, like, I found it really fucked up life you know
Shaun w: But
Gwenevere Abriel: My guess is you tell me
Gwenevere Abriel: Where else have you been betrayed besides that event.
Shaun w: Everywhere.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so it's not just
Shaun w: Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Back to back to back. So it'll show up in here. It has to write because in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll be asking you to be vulnerable. I'll be asking you to talk about your underbelly feelings, all that kind of stuff. And for years, you've probably cultivated this defense mechanism of being tough and strong.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's, you may feel uncomfortable going there. But the neat thing is you might end up liking.
Gwenevere Abriel: The changes that happened in here you might like it you might like not being as defensive. You might notice over time.
Gwenevere Abriel: That relationships start to change that people don't see you as defensive and guess what you might have more intimate closer relationships with people you might like it over time.
Gwenevere Abriel: When right when you start to develop trust in yourself a little bit more trust in Me, we can reverse it in here and then you take those skills out into the world.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I
Shaun w: Try not even go nowhere because I don't want no problem.
Shaun w: So I try not to give you have friends and going over like this. This girl he kicked with the other day and I had to go to the hospital. But I didn't even want to kick it with girls like she ended up. You know what I mean. And I was just like,
Shaun w: I didn't even want to kick it with her. I didn't want to have sex with her and she was all like, you know, I mean that I did, and I know it's happening now to the hospital. You know, they mean
Shaun w: Friends, I just want to be left alone.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my gosh. And I completely forgot, Sean, you, you shared something in group that just like I literally just snap to it. Are you okay
Shaun w: Yeah, just got all this urgency surgery Sunday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is now, did they put like an implant and or anything. What did they do.
Shaun w: To the the cut my skin like where I'm circumcised pulled my skin down sewed up wherever it rip that that pulled my skin back up and resold it
Gwenevere Abriel: Piece
Shaun w: As it hurt. It's still a stinging right now as we talk and then they won't give me no pain meds because I'm on Suboxone. And so they said Suboxone should be good enough. But it's doing all right. Yeah. Yes, just lost him.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you can you manage it, that
Shaun w: Can you manage
Gwenevere Abriel: This to see yourself through this. Yeah, you'd be pretty proud of yourself. I bet if you can pull this off.
Shaun w: Yeah, I'm not, I'm not trying to do drugs. I'm not
Trying to
Shaun w: Keep her because
Shaun w: I just, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: We're not talking about that we're not even
Shaun w: Going to it right
Gwenevere Abriel: I learned my lesson. I know you guys are all the same when you first started like way people talking about I want to take her I'm finally like trying to get stable.
Shaun w: I just got on it. Yeah, I
Gwenevere Abriel: Got on your program. I got you.
Shaun w: And I even think one's not even though I really need to a day, really, to be honest with you one of these, like, really low, like I really need one in the morning, one at night.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so let's go do this release of information. I am just failing as far as my ability to pull up this document, maybe has it's been too many months since I've done it. How about we do this. Let's go visit together. Let's go over to a virtual clinic. Together we go do that.
Shaun w: Yeah, how we do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, you leave here. I'll go in and I think what I'll do. There is I'll ask someone to help with the release. Right. I will go in there together. So leave here and then just go into virtual clinic. I'll meet you there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, goodbye.